feat(cli): migration guide for lazy loading and custom selection set feature flag (#4934)
aws-amplify/docs: src/pages/cli/migration/lazy-load-custom-selection-set.mdx

> export const meta = {

Reviewer: Overall feedback:
- Reference https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/#has-one-relationship for the writing style on relationships. "has-one" -> "Has One" or "@hasOne"
- "Amplify Swift" needs to be "Amplify for Swift"
- Don't use title casing for "Lazy Loading" or "Custom Selection Sets", rather "lazy loading", "custom selection sets"

>   title: `Lazy Loading and Custom Selection Set`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: `Amplify for Swift: Lazy Loading and Custom Selection Set`,
```

  description: `Lazy Loading and Custom Selection Set`,

> };

Reviewer: please expand on a more verbose description for SEO purposes

## **What is changing?** 

> With the latest Amplify Swift library and Amplify Codegen, developers now have better query controls on connected models, described as lazy loading and eager loading a connected model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the latest Amplify for Swift library and Amplify Codegen, developers now have better query controls on connected models, described as lazy loading and eager loading a connected model.
```

> * **API (GraphQL)** now allows Selection Set customizations by providing the `includes` parameter to control the depth of the selection set specifying which connected model to eager load or lazy load.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **API (GraphQL)** now allows selection set customizations via the `includes` parameter to control the depth of the selection set specifying which connected model to eager load or lazy load.
```

* **Models** now have extended support for lazy loading connected models to include has-one and belongs-to relations.

> * **DataStore (Swift)** now has better support for cross platform app development. Model updates from Amplify Studio and the Amplify Libraries including JavaScript and Android can be now observed in real-time by DataStore Swift apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **DataStore (Swift)** now has better support for cross platform app development. Model updates from Amplify Studio and the Amplify Libraries including JavaScript and Android can be now observed in real-time by DataStore apps built with Swift.
```

* **DataStore (Swift)** now supports the bi-directional has-one data modeling use case.

## Custom Selection Sets

Developers using **API (GraphQL)** can control the data returned from their GraphQL service. The request for a particular model can include or exclude connected models. Let’s take a look at the schema with Post and Comment models in the following examples. A comment belongs to a post and a post has many comments.

```
enum PostStatus {
  ACTIVE
  INACTIVE
}

type Post @model @auth(rules: [{allow: public}]) {
  id: ID!
  title: String!
  rating: Int!
  status: PostStatus!
  comments: [Comment] @hasMany
}

type Comment @model @auth(rules: [{allow: public}]) {
  id: ID!
  content: String
  post: Post @belongsTo
}
```

> Currently, developers querying for the Comment will contain the Post eager loaded:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, developers querying for the `Comment` will contain the `Post` eager loaded:
```

if case .success(let queriedComment) = response {
    print("Queried Comment eager loaded post: \(queriedComment?.post)")
}
```

</Block>
</BlockSwitcher>

With the new model types and library changes, the same request will no longer eager load the post. The post is lazy loaded from the GraphQL service at the time the post is accessed.

<BlockSwitcher>
<Block name="Swift">

```swift
let response = try await Amplify.API.query(request: .get(Comment.self, byId: "commentId"))
if case .success(let queriedComment) = response {
    print("Queried Comment \(String(describing: queriedComment))")
    // Lazy Load the post
    if let post = try await queriedComment?.post {
        print("Lazy loaded the post: \(post)")
    }
}
```

</Block>
</BlockSwitcher>

To achieve the previous behavior, specifying the model path using the new `includes` parameter:

<BlockSwitcher>
<Block name="Swift">

```swift
let response = try await Amplify.API.query(request:
        .get(Comment.self,
             byId: "commentId",
             includes: { comment in [comment.post]} ))
if case .success(let queriedComment) = response {
    print("Queried Comment \(String(describing: queriedComment))")

>     // Lazy Load the post

Reviewer 2: Is this actually lazily loading the post? I thought that the `includes` forces eager loading?

Author: this was a type, updated to eager load

    if let post = try await queriedComment?.post {
        print("Eager loaded post: \(post)")
    }
}
```

> This will populate the Selection Set of the post in the GraphQL document which indicates to your GraphQL service to retrieve the post model as part of the operation. Once you await on the post, the post model will immediately be returned without making a service call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will populate the selection set of the post in the GraphQL document which indicates to your GraphQL service to retrieve the post model as part of the operation. Once you await on the post, the post model will immediately be returned without making a service call.
```

**DataStore (Swift)** now supports [Bi-directional “has one” relationship](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/graphql/data-modeling/#belongs-to-relationship). Previously, due to Swift language limitations the generated Swift model types will not compile.

```
type Project @model {
  id: ID!
  name: String
  team: Team @hasOne
}

type Team @model {
  id: ID!
  name: String!
  project: Project @belongsTo
}
```

## Where do I make these changes?

1. Update Amplify CLI to the latest version

```
amplify upgrade
```

2. The version should be at least x.x.x

```
amplify --v # at least x.x.x
```

3. Set the feature flag `generateModelsForLazyLoadAndCustomSelectionSet` to `true` in `cli.json` at the amplify project root.

4. Run `amplify codegen models` to generate the latest models.

5. Upgrade Amplify libraries to x.x.x or greater.

6. Open the App and make sure the app compiles with the latest generated models. 

## What are the breaking changes?

By explicitly enabling the feature flag `generateModelsForLazyLoadAndCustomSelectionSet` and using the latest Amplify Library, there are a few scenarios you may be in.

### Scenario 1. Using API (GraphQL)

> **Amplify.API** will no longer eager load the belongs-to and has-one connected models when using the latest codegen. To allow your app backwards compatibility with previous versions of your app, specify the model path with `includes` for all belongs-to and has-one relationships. This is crucial to allow previous versions of the app to decode mutations sourced from new versions of the app successfully. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Amplify.API** will no longer eager load the "belongs to" and "has one" connected models when using the latest codegen. To allow your app backwards compatibility with previous versions of your app, specify the model path with `includes` for all belongs-to and has-one relationships. This is crucial to allow previous versions of the app to decode mutations sourced from new versions of the app successfully. 
```
